core/workflow-pod-brain/README.md, before:

# Workflow Pod Brain

## Architecture

![](./architecture.JPG)

## Structure Overview

### Configuration Files
Under `src/main/resources/`, there are two configuration files:
- application.conf: define the kubernetes config and the mysql connection config
- config.yaml: define the web application's config

All configuration itmes are written by `src/main/scala/config/ApplicationConf.scala`, you can directly use `config` object to access them in the application codes.

### Application codes

All application codes are under `src/main/scala`
- WorkflowPodBrainApplication.scala: the main launcher the of the workflow pod app
- service/KubernetesClientService.scala(TODO): the encapsulation of Kubernetes pod creation/deletion/query logics
- web/
  - model: contains the sql related connection, and classes generated by jooq to manipulate/query tables in DB
  - resources: the RESTful endpoints of the application. `HelloWorldResource` is the hello world endpoint, `WorkflowPodBrainResource`(TODO) are endpoints for workflow-pod related logics

## How to get started

### Dependencies
Similar to texera project, the `Java 11`, `sbt` are required

### Local development setup

Intellij is highly recommended. You can re-use the IDE setup of the texera project.

### Launch the App

To launch the application, build and run `core/workflow-pod-brain/src/main/scala/WorkflowPodBrainApplication.scala`, below is the setup in Intellij:
![](./idea-config.png)


## How to collaborate

1. Checkout from this branch, `workflow-pod`
2. If you have changes ready to review, submit the PR from `your-dev-branch` to `workflow-pod` through Github. The review is done via Github
3. If `workflow-pod` is updated, Jiadong will send the slack message, and you can update your local `workflow-pod` branch and rebase `your-dev-branch` on top of `workflow-pod`
4. If any changes need to be made in `workflow-pod`, feel free to DM/email Jiadong(jiadongb@uci.edu)

Commit message:

Add GUI design and user experience section

core/workflow-pod-brain/README.md, after:

# Workflow Pod Brain

## Architecture

![](./architecture.JPG)

## GUI Design and User Experience
A power button is added next to the `Run` button.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/afce0224-fe3b-4fde-a953-bc3810a86c63)

By default, no pod is running. When user click on this power button, the button turns into a spinning wheel before the pod is ready.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6c5c04fc-12c0-45f8-ba74-7bd05425242f)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c955288c-f0e1-4984-b6b8-2207ec3b9273)
Now the pod is ready, the button becomes a terminate button, when user click it, the pod will be terminated. After termination, the button becomes power button again.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/25d0ea02-628b-47ca-9b9e-7ed27de1ae7b)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f230d545-defe-478d-8f1e-238abe22ac6f)

### Involved GUI codes

The component for the workflow's workspace menu is: `core/gui/src/app/workspace/component/menu`, you will need to modify this component to add such button. Please try to make this button a **standalone** component, and let the existing `menu` component to import the power button you wrote. This can keep the code clean.

For sending request to the backend from the frontend, you may add a new `service` in the gui(e.g. `workflow-pod-brain.service.ts`). You can refer to other existing services under `core/gui/src/app/workspace/service` to create a new one just for the workflow pod brain.

## Structure Overview

### Configuration Files
Under `src/main/resources/`, there are two configuration files:
- application.conf: define the kubernetes config and the mysql connection config
- config.yaml: define the web application's config

All configuration itmes are written by `src/main/scala/config/ApplicationConf.scala`, you can directly use `config` object to access them in the application codes.

### Application codes

All application codes are under `src/main/scala`
- WorkflowPodBrainApplication.scala: the main launcher the of the workflow pod app
- service/KubernetesClientService.scala(TODO): the encapsulation of Kubernetes pod creation/deletion/query logics
- web/
  - model: contains the sql related connection, and classes generated by jooq to manipulate/query tables in DB
  - resources: the RESTful endpoints of the application. `HelloWorldResource` is the hello world endpoint, `WorkflowPodBrainResource`(TODO) are endpoints for workflow-pod related logics

## How to get started

### Dependencies
Similar to texera project, the `Java 11`, `sbt` are required

### Local development setup

Intellij is highly recommended. You can re-use the IDE setup of the texera project.

### Launch the App

To launch the application, build and run `core/workflow-pod-brain/src/main/scala/WorkflowPodBrainApplication.scala`, below is the setup in Intellij:
![](./idea-config.png)


## How to collaborate

1. Checkout from this branch, `workflow-pod`
2. If you have changes ready to review, submit the PR from `your-dev-branch` to `workflow-pod` through Github. The review is done via Github
3. If `workflow-pod` is updated, Jiadong will send the slack message, and you can update your local `workflow-pod` branch and rebase `your-dev-branch` on top of `workflow-pod`
4. If any changes need to be made in `workflow-pod`, feel free to DM/email Jiadong(jiadongb@uci.edu)
